_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hello! I'm Guodong Lu (鲁国栋), a Research Assistant at Hunan University in Changsha, China. I specialize in computational materials science with a focus on machine learning applications in materials design and first-principles calculations.

## Education & Experience

I earned my M.S. in Materials Science and Engineering from Hunan University (June 2025, GPA: 3.68/4.0) and my B.S. from Dalian Jiaotong University (June 2022, GPA: 86.61/100). Currently, I continue my research as a Research Assistant at Hunan University (August 2025 - Present).

## Research Interests

My research focuses on computational materials science with specific interests in:

- **Machine Learning in Materials Science**: Active learning, interpretable ML models (SISSO, SHAP), and data-driven materials discovery
- **First-Principles Calculations**: Using DFT (VASP) to investigate atomic-scale interactions in metallic systems
- **High-Throughput Computations**: Implementing automated workflows for large-scale materials screening
- **Molecular Dynamics**: Large-scale atomistic simulations for complex material systems

## Personal Interests

Beyond computational research, I am passionate about:

- **Open Science & Knowledge Sharing**: I maintain this website and blog to share tutorials and insights on computational materials science techniques, including VASP, LAMMPS, and machine learning methods. I believe in making scientific knowledge accessible to the broader research community.
- **Scientific Computing**: Exploring new computational methods and tools to improve research efficiency and reproducibility. I enjoy learning about emerging technologies in scientific computing and high-performance computing.
- **Interdisciplinary Research**: Bridging materials science with data science and computational physics. I'm particularly interested in how machine learning can accelerate materials discovery and provide physical insights.
- **Reproducible Research**: Advocating for best practices in computational research, including code sharing, detailed documentation, and reproducibility standards in computational materials science.

## Technical Skills

**Computational Tools**:
- **First-principles**: VASP, AFLOW, Elastool
- **Machine Learning**: scikit-learn, ASE, pymatgen, SHAP, SISSO
- **Molecular Dynamics**: LAMMPS
- **Programming**: Python (advanced), Shell scripting
- **High-Performance Computing**: Experience with parallel computing and cluster environments

**Languages**: English (Fluent, IELTS 6.5), Chinese (Native)

## Selected Publications

I have published 5 peer-reviewed articles (including 2 as first author and 1 as co-first author) in journals such as *Advanced Functional Materials*, *Journal of Nuclear Materials*, *Computational Materials Science*, and *Materials & Design*. Please visit the [Publications](/publications/) page for complete details.

## Honors & Awards

- Outstanding Graduate of Hunan University (2025)
- National Graduate Scholarship (2024)
- Outstanding Graduate of Dalian City (2022)
- First Prize, National College Students Mathematics Competition, Liaoning Province (2021)

## Contact

Feel free to reach out to me at [djtulgd@gmail.com](mailto:djtulgd@gmail.com) or connect with me on [GitHub](https://github.com/lgd-matlab). I'm always interested in discussing computational materials science, machine learning applications, and potential collaborations.

Commit message:

Update about page: replace placeholder with real personal interests
- Remove old computational-focused placeholder interests:
  * Open Science & Knowledge Sharing
  * Scientific Computing
  * Interdisciplinary Research
  * Reproducible Research

- Add authentic personal interests:
  * History reading (world, military, Chinese history)
  * Time management and knowledge organization books
  * Table tennis and gym workouts for stress management
  * Self-hosted GitHub projects and server experiments

Maintains professional tone while showing genuine personality.
Follows Truth-First Content principle (Constitution I).

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hello! I'm Guodong Lu (鲁国栋), a Research Assistant at Hunan University in Changsha, China. I specialize in computational materials science with a focus on machine learning applications in materials design and first-principles calculations.

## Education & Experience

I earned my M.S. in Materials Science and Engineering from Hunan University (June 2025, GPA: 3.68/4.0) and my B.S. from Dalian Jiaotong University (June 2022, GPA: 86.61/100). Currently, I continue my research as a Research Assistant at Hunan University (August 2025 - Present).

## Research Interests

My research focuses on computational materials science with specific interests in:

- **Machine Learning in Materials Science**: Active learning, interpretable ML models (SISSO, SHAP), and data-driven materials discovery
- **First-Principles Calculations**: Using DFT (VASP) to investigate atomic-scale interactions in metallic systems
- **High-Throughput Computations**: Implementing automated workflows for large-scale materials screening
- **Molecular Dynamics**: Large-scale atomistic simulations for complex material systems

## Personal Interests

Beyond research, I enjoy a variety of activities that help me maintain balance and perspective:

- **History & Knowledge Organization**: I'm an avid reader of history books, with particular interests in world history, military history, and Chinese history. I also enjoy books on time management and knowledge organization systems, which help me stay productive and organized in both research and daily life.

- **Sports & Fitness**: I play table tennis (ping-pong) regularly and visit the gym to exercise. Physical activity helps me stay energetic and manage stress, especially during challenging research periods. Staying active keeps my mind sharp and focused.

- **Self-Hosted Projects**: I enjoy experimenting with GitHub projects on my personal server. It's a fun way to explore new technologies, practice deployment skills, and learn about server management outside of my research work.

## Technical Skills

**Computational Tools**:
- **First-principles**: VASP, AFLOW, Elastool
- **Machine Learning**: scikit-learn, ASE, pymatgen, SHAP, SISSO
- **Molecular Dynamics**: LAMMPS
- **Programming**: Python (advanced), Shell scripting
- **High-Performance Computing**: Experience with parallel computing and cluster environments

**Languages**: English (Fluent, IELTS 6.5), Chinese (Native)

## Selected Publications

I have published 5 peer-reviewed articles (including 2 as first author and 1 as co-first author) in journals such as *Advanced Functional Materials*, *Journal of Nuclear Materials*, *Computational Materials Science*, and *Materials & Design*. Please visit the [Publications](/publications/) page for complete details.

## Honors & Awards

- Outstanding Graduate of Hunan University (2025)
- National Graduate Scholarship (2024)
- Outstanding Graduate of Dalian City (2022)
- First Prize, National College Students Mathematics Competition, Liaoning Province (2021)

## Contact

Feel free to reach out to me at [djtulgd@gmail.com](mailto:djtulgd@gmail.com) or connect with me on [GitHub](https://github.com/lgd-matlab). I'm always interested in discussing computational materials science, machine learning applications, and potential collaborations.
